>> Brian Holt: So now what we wanna do,
over here I'm gonna run my npm run dev,
no I want watch.
So I'm gonna go back to using watch,
I'm gonna stop using the dev server.
So I'm gonna do npm run watch over here.
>> Brian Holt: And
what I'm gonna do here instead, I gonna
make sure what version of Node I'm on.
I'm on Node 7, right, so
make sure you're using a version above 4.
And I'm gonna say node.
>> Brian Holt: First
thing I have to say is,
I have to say NODE_ENV=server, right?
Cuz I have to make sure that it's
in the correct Node environment.
And then I'm gonna say, node server.js.
>> Brian Holt: And what did I do here?
Yes, we need to fix this too.
>> Brian Holt: So we have another problem.
Here in app.js, I think,
we're doing these CSS imports.
You can fix this so it runs on the server.
But it's enough configuration and
burden and
enough time that I don't think it's
worth spending time doing today.
So we're not going to, so
what we're going to do instead,
>> Brian Holt: Is we're just going to
delete these, and we're just going
to put them into the index.html.
>> Brian Holt: So,
link /public/normalize.css.
>> Brian Holt: And,
>> Brian Holt: style.css.
So you have to pull in another loader,
it's call Isomorphic Style Loader,
that knows how to do both Node and
client side.
It's unfun, I'll put it that way.
And I don't think it's worthy of
spending a lot of time fixing right now.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: So now I have listening on
port 5050.
So now if I go to,
instead of 8080, to 5050,
>> Brian Holt: I get my app still, and
it still works.
>> Brian Holt: Let's check
out why this is cool.
So, if you go to View Source now,
>> Brian Holt: Look at everything
that's coming back from the server.
>> Brian Holt: Right,
look at everything that's coming back.
Pretty compelling, I think.
>> Brian Holt: So,
we can even go as far to say,
>> Brian Holt: Bring up our dev tools, and
say, Disable JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: We
can still navigate our entire app.
Obviously it's not gonna be interactive,
but we can still navigate the app
with no JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: That's amazing,
I didn't hear enough ohs and
ahs, seriously.
[LAUGH] I think it's really cool,
that that still works.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions about that?
I think it's phenomenal.
Don't get me wrong, I'm not going
to assert that it's easy, but
I think it's phenomenal that there's not
a ton of line of codes to get that to
work.
>> Brian Holt: But
lets talk about why this
introduces additional complexity.
Before we could pretty well assume
that we could use window.blah
whenever we wanted to.
Any sort of like DOM APIs or Ajax things,
we didn't really have to care too
much where that stuff was happening.
Now we have to be extremely careful that
we're not trying to reference the DOM
where it won't necessarily be available.
We can't make Ajax calls unless
we're sure that the DOM's available.
There's additional considerations
everywhere that's like,
okay this gonna be running both
in Node and in the browser, and
we don't want to blow up our Node server,
right?
All considerations that
we have to worry about
now.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: There's a question from
Anton.
He got a warning message talking about,
target node has markup rendered by React,
but there are unrelated nodes as well.
And a follow on, this is most commonly
caused by white space inserted around
server-rendered markup on localhost 5050.
I guess you're probably getting it too.
>> Brian Holt: I don't think so.
>> Speaker 2: No?
>> Speaker 2: It's generally when
you have your markup kind of broken
lines and that kind of stuff.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so notice that
there's no white space in here.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
okay.
>> Brian Holt: So that's my guess.
>> Speaker 2: All right.
>> Brian Holt: Or it could be somewhere in
that, but
it sounds like it's a white space problem.
>> Speaker 2: Resolved.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so one thing I did
want to show you,
that's another thing we have to be very
careful about with server-side rendering.
So inside of app.js, I'm just gonna
put a thing right here where it's
just going to output Date.now.
>> Brian Holt: Or
let's just do Math.random.
So every time I render this it's
gonna be slightly different, right,
because Math.random's gonna give
us a slightly different number.
So that means what gets rendered on
the server is gonna be different than what
gets rendered the first time that
React bootstraps on the server, or
sorry in the browser.
>> Brian Holt: So now,
if you look at your,
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna say, hey, React
tried to reuse markup in the container,
but the checksum was invalid, right?
Why is that?
Well, Math.random got run in the server,
and that was one value.
Then it sends it down the wire,
then it tries to run with that same
function again, and it's gonna get
something slightly different, right?
Because Math.random's gonna
be different on both sides.
So what Reacts says is, well these
two things are not the same thing, so
I'm gonna blow away everything
you rendered on the server, and
rerender something entirely new.
This is a problem, right?
Because you essentially killed all of your
benefits by sending it down the wire.
The benefits of server-side rendering.
Server-side rendering is only beneficial
if React is able to reuse the markup that
it got from the server.
If it has to blow it away,
then you lost all your performance gains.
So you also have to be careful that
what happens on the server is precisely
the same thing that happens on
first render in the browser.
>> Brian Holt: Does that makes sense?
Does that make sense that I'm
getting this now with Math.random?
Yeah, so you just have to be
careful of something like that.